You've watched Rollerblade, you've played Mortal Kombat,
and now: the most violent sport EVVVVEEERRRRR!!!!! (echo effect)

DOOM HOCKEY!!!!!!!!    by Seth Cohn (all right reserved!!!)
(version 1.0)

No whimpy old puck, we use genuine living people!!!! (properly
armored as to avoid nasty corpses)

No penalties at all!!! (Use that BFG slapshot on the opponent!!!)

No scoring!! (well, you can keep track of it...)


This game can be played with 1-4 players.  1 player is a practice game,
2 players is man on man, 3 players is 2 on 1, and 4 players is WAY COOL!

You begin in your locker room.  Grab your weapons (one of each type) and
go to the closed entries.  There are 2 doors: each door can only be opened
from one team's side, so neither team can hit the ice before the other.
From the moment the doors open, gameplay begins!

The 'puck' (well we call him 'Puck' cause he's short and green...) is in the
center.  Blast the puck into the opposing team's goal using any weapon you
want.  Shotgun play him! Rocket him! Chaingun him! Plasma him! Even BFG him!
The only thing that counts is getting him into the goal... If your
opponent has the puck, steal it, blast him, anything, just don't let him
score with it!!!!

Whne the puck hits the goal, it vanishes to reappear back in center court.
Depending on how you want to play, you can either all go back to the blue
spots and from there, begin, OR play free for all, and anything goes!!!

WARNING: Entering the goal _real_ close to where the puck has entered MAY
teleport you as well into the SAME spot, causing a nasty space time flux
which renders you both dead and causes the game to be forfeited to
the opposing team... 

Each goal scores one point, and when all the ammo is gone, the game is over
(or it's half over, depending on how you want to play...)

Winner takes all!!!!  Go for it!!!

The teams tonight: The Radical Radiations!!! - They're DANGEROUS!!!
                             vs.
                 The Stomping Stopsigns!!! - Stop them before they kill again! 

Play instructions:

1 player: Run, and since you can get out of the locker room, type idspispopd
to walk thru the wall, then type it again to turn that off.
You can run this without patching the doom .exe if you also turn on iddqd
and probably using idkfa as you run out of stuff...

Multiplayer: You MUST MUST MUST run the patch included.  Thanks to the
author of this patch, we can play DOOM Hockey!!!! Make sure you back up
the doom .exe BEFORE you run this patch, just in case.  This patch gives you
godmode and makes any ammo you pick up worth a lot more.  Run a net or modem
game, and go to it.

Technotes: 1) You must apply the patch to all machines runnings.  Failure to
           do so will cause inconsistancy failures.  So you cannot use this
           patch to cheat on a net game.
           2) The entire level was rewritten to avoid the infamous doom
           HOM bug.  I had to remove a bunch of 2 sided lines to bring the
           Hall of Mirror effect under control.  Thus things aren't as
           smooth as I'd like, but game play is unaffected.
           3) I had plans for a penalty box, but decided there was no point
           to it, and had plans for the crowd to do the wave, but again the
           HOM effect made this difficult...
           4) I discovered that you can't make multiple doors which open by
           opening the door nearest you.  You can only trigger multidoors
           by setting up linedefs you walk over.
           5) I made the teleport more complex, to avoid the deadly teleport
           effect more often, and added linedefs futher back, since I was
           able to shoot the puck once in while past the first set of lines.
           6) Hope everything is bug free.  Took forever to recode this thing.
           
This wad is copyrighted by me, but is freely distributable by people, EXCEPT
those who do so for profit.  NO CD ROM or SHAREWARE DEALER MAY SELL OR 
DISTRIBUTE THIS WAD IN ANY WAY SHAPE OR FORM, ON ANY MEDIA (except maybe me, 
since I'm a cd publisher myself...) I WILL SUE YOU IF YOU DO. (I'm not trying 
to be nasty here, but the ethics of other cd publishers is a thing I'm REAL 
familiar with, and if I could sue them, I would...) 
THIS FILE MUST ACCOMPANY THIS WAD, AS MUST ANY OTHER FILE INCLUDED WITH
IT.  IF YOU ARE LACKING THE PATCH FILE, THE HACK.EXE, OR THE BATCH FILE,
YOU MAY NOT DISTRIBUTE THIS WAD. THIS IS TO PROTECT THE INTEGRITY OF THIS
WAD FILE.

Doom is c. and trademarked by id software, and that should cover everything.

Thanks to the folks on IRC, the many other folks who have made doing this
possible (id, the authors of DEU, the other people who contributed to 
figuring out the wad file stuff), my brother Dale and others for betatesting,
and most of all, whoever at id made the decision that multiple players of
one number would show up and be moveable...

Seth Cohn, email me at scohn@nyx.cs.du.edu with bugs, thanks, money, whatever.

