WAD File: longmtch.wad
Author  : Shane Boyer (sboyer@esu.edu) with help from K. Desrochers, T. Furst
Date    : 4-21-94
Author Note: This level has been refined over the course of a couple weeks
	     through heavy playtesting. Hopefully an optimum blend of 
	     enemies, ammo, health and "tricks" as well as physical design
	     has been acheived. Please email any comments to above address.
Description:
	A Deathmatch (although single player is supported on one level
	of play) level. Mid-sized so that players run into each other
	often enough, but all areas have multiple connections to other
	areas so there are no traps.  Three big rooms, nicknamed "The
	Prison", "The Skull Room", and "The Arena". These rooms have various 
	windows, teleports, and interconnecting passageways between them.
	Plenty of health, ammo and armor to go around.  Designed as a long
	lasting deathmatch level.  The three weapons in the multiplayer
	game are the shotgun, rocket launcher, and one chainsaw.  In the single
	player game, a chain gun is added.
	Three secrets, including the "Happy Room".
	longmtch.wad replaces level 1 of episode 2.

How to play:
	Single Player: 
	    Single player is designed to be moderately hard, but shouldn't
	    be impossible for doom "veterans". The only skill level that
	    has single player item placements is level 4 (Ultra Violence).
	    To play single player:
		doom -file longmtch.wad -episode 2 -skill 4

	Multiplayer:
	    Multiplayer increases the amount of health and ammo, and decreases
	    the number of enemies. For those of you who like to play Deathmatch
	    with enemies, this level should allow -respawn at the same time.
	    There are just enough enemies to annoy you!  Multiplayer is setup
	    for skill levels 1, 2 and 3.  So depending on how much damage you
	    want to take, choose accordingly; the item placement is the same
	    between the three levels. To play two-player with respawn on 
	    skill 1, type:
		ipxsetup -file longmtch.wad -episode 2 -skill 1 -respawn

Known Problems: There are two "problems":
		  - first, there is a point when going from one sector into
		    a door sector where the screen momentarily will turn
		    black with speckles.  I've run the latest BSP node
		    generator on the WAD file, with no change. I've seen 
		    this effect in other WADs but don't know what to do 
		    to fix it. Doesn't affect gameplay.
		  - Second, a wall in the "Happy Room" (believe me, you'll
		    know what room I'm talking about when you see it) is 
		    transparent in the sense you can shoot rockets or
		    plasma through it. I set the linedefs to impassible,
		    but without success. Don't know why this happens.
		    Still really doesn't affect gameplay all that much.

And PLEASE email me any comments you have, as I would be receptive to either
modifying this level or building a new one if people like this one.

			Shane (sboyer@esu.edu)


